---
title: Create a layout
description: Add some HTML code to the content
order: 2
---

The HTML code generated by the Markdown file in the [step 1](your-first-page.md)
is very basic. If you open the `_site/index.html` file, you will see something
like this:

```html
<h1>Welcome to my website</h1>
<p>This if my first page using <strong>Lume,</strong>
a static site generator for Deno.</p>
<p>I hope you enjoy it.</p>
```

You may be missing some basic HTML tags like `<html>`, `<head>` or `<body>`.
This is because Markdown isn't a format designed to build html pages, but only
the piece of the code containing the article or post. You need to use a
**layout** to create a complete web page.

## Create a layout

Create a new directory `_includes` and the file `layout.njk` inside it. The
`.njk` extension is for [Nunjucks](https://mozilla.github.io/nunjucks/): a
template engine supported by default by Lume. Insert the following code in file:

<lume-code>

```html {Title="_includes/layout.njk}
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8">
  <title>My first page</title>
</head>
<body>
  {{ content | safe }}
</body>
</html>
```

</lume-code>

This layout contains the `HTML` code needed to build the whole page, except the
content that we have defined in `index.md`. The tag `{{ content | safe }}` is
the placeholder used to insert the page content.

Go to
[Nunjucks documentation](https://mozilla.github.io/nunjucks/templating.html) to
know more about its syntax. {.tip}

## Assign the layout to the page

Now we have to configure our page (`index.md`) to use the layout that we just
created. In our page we have to create a _front matter_: a block delimited by
two triple-dashed lines containing [YAML](https://yaml.org/) code. In this block
we have to define the variable `layout` with the value `layout.njk` (the name of
the layout file).

<lume-code>

```yml {title="index.md"}
---
layout: layout.njk
---
# Welcome to my website

This if my first page using **Lume,**
a static site generator for Deno.

I hope you enjoy it.
```

</lume-code>

Lume will compile the markdown code and use the `layout.njk` file as the page
layout.

The directory `_includes` is a special directory that Lume understand, you don't
need to include it in the `layout` variable. {.tip}
